All right, so
we'll move into the Network tab.
So the Network tab can be a bit more
overwhelming, so we'll do a refresh with
the Network tab open and we'll get
kind of a lot of different stuff.
One thing I kind of like
to do pretty often is,
you can see in this section here,
there are a lot of optional things.
So maybe deselecting
the optional things for
now just to try to make
the page as simple as possible,
knowing that we can go back and
add these things later if we need to.
So with all of the options deselected,
we can see that this page has only
two HDP requests that come over.
So the document itself, and
then this style CSS page,
you can click on anyone and
you can see what the response looks like.
So the document is HTML and
the CSS is CSS.
You can do some kind of cool things,
you can hold Shift while you hover
over an item and see who called it.
So if you think about the way your page
normally loads, it's like an HTML file
comes in and it has script tags to
JavaScript or link tags to CSS.
And then it kind of goes from there, but
you can have JavaScript that fetches other
JavaScript or JavaScript that fetches CSS,
blah, blah, blah, so Chrome kinda
keeps track of all this stuff.
So if you're like, well,
where did this style.css come from?
You can hit Shift and hover, and
it'll highlight in green the About
pages where it came from.
A lot of the important information,
I think, for
the network tab when you're
first looking is down here.
Unfortunately, I can't zoom
that in any longer, but
it says how many total requests,
how much was totally transferred?
How much in total
resources was downloaded?
This is a bit of a nuanced thing
that I get questions on a lot.
These numbers will often
be very close to the same,
but they will often be different,
and there's a few reasons for it.
One of them is that things can be cached,
which we'll talk about later.
So you could imagine that
you have a service worker or
that you just have a heavy caching policy
on your images, your CSS, something
like that in which case the resources
downloaded would be much smaller.
It's also important to keep in
mind that a lot of this stuff,
the transfer over network is give and
take.
And so instead of just the resources
downloaded, which is just like what
the browser took from the server,
the transferred will also have whenever
a fetch request is made or anything
like that, the amount of data sent.
So if you have a lot of
data being sent and given,
then your transfer will be a lot
higher than your resources.
But I think they're both good
numbers to It's kind of keep in
mind about how much really
went over the wire.
And then you've got how long it
took to finish the page, and
then you've got these kind of Dom
content loaded and load events.
I'm not sure if anyone's ever messed
with these in JavaScript before, but
you can do on load or
on Dom content loaded.
But they're essentially how long did
it take for the actual Dom content,
which is the HTML, CSS,
all that to come down, get applied, and
then how long until the final page loaded.
They were put together, the JavaScript
was applied, things like that.
So this is kind of a nice overview
at the bottom of how many requests,
how much data went over the wire, and
how long did the page take to assemble,
essentially, are what
these are showing you.
All right, so from here,
we can see in this main table,
we've got quite a few columns.
One nice thing to note is that if you
right-click on here, you actually have 100
more columns that you can add
depending on what you're doing.
If you're doing security
specific things or
if you're doing a migration
from HTTP/2 to HTTP/3.
You can get all sorts of great
information from here, but
we're not gonna cover it all for now,
just know that there's a lot more here.
So you can also see how big everything
was, how much time each item took to load,
and the priority given
to it by the browser.
We're gonna get into priority when we
cover the network section later, but
just kind of good to know
that it's there for now.
So if we go ahead and
we clicked Screenshots,
we'll come into one of the first sticking
points I find of the DevTools that
get people confused sometimes.
So when the DevTools themselves are open,
even though to us,
the website is still very much
there in the background, right?
We know that, let's see,
performance, this Performance tab.
We know that the Performance tab is there
whether or not the DevTools are open.
But the truth of the matter is that
Chrome will only do the work of
rendering what needs to be
shown to the user, right?
Chrome is very lazy in this sense.
And so when you have the DevTools open on
the left side, right side, or bottom, it
is important to remember that even though
we know the website is there underneath,
it's not doing any of the work
to render that website.
So when you do things like screenshots and
you click on one of these Screenshots,
you will see that the screenshot is,
in fact, only showing that little bit of
the website that actually
was needed to render.
So the kinda caveat there is whenever you
run into anything like this, the thing to
do is to go over here to these three
dots and to pop the DevTools out.
Now, with the DevTools popped opt out,
nothing is blocking that from rendering,
so we can go ahead and
Cmd+R to refresh again.
And as the page comes in now,
we will see that the screenshots
have the entirety of the web page.
This is also true with
like the Performance tab.
If you have a really fast block, a text,
then you have a really slow block,
a video game, and you have the DevTools
up over hiding the slow block,
then Chrome will not spend all that work
rendering that stuff because it's lazy.
And it says, I know that that's not
being able to be seen by the user.
So again,
sometimes when you're doing deep audits,
it can be a little bit tricky if you
have the DevTools covering a bit.
And then you're confused why it's
not highlighting the performance, or
the network traffic, or
the screenshots of that bit.
Hopefully, that makes some sense, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Is that the viewport then,
or how is it looking at?
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah, so
basically, as far as Chrome cares,
it goes by its viewport and the DevTools
being open then shrinks its viewport.
And so it does an intelligent pass to say,
okay, I only have 100 pixels open what
needs to be in there, and
that's all the work it does.
It doesn't truly not do the other
work like it'll obviously need
to do some compute and processing,
but it is important to think about
that this lazy system based on.
Similarly, if you've seen one of those
blogs where the image is only load when
you get into the screen, it's doing
the same kind of thing, where it's like,
if this isn't shown to the user,
then I don't need to do this work.
>> Speaker 2: If you sort the incoming
requests, for example, by name,
how do you get back to the default sort?
>> Jon Kuperman: Let's try
this out on a real website.
This is a great question.
So if we go to google.com,
which I'm hoping will have a fair
amount of network requests.
Okay, so
this has a bunch of network requests.
And we can see that the first
thing in is the document.
So yeah, if you're in and you're clicking
around, and you get into some state and
you wanna get back to the way
that things were the first time,
you can right-click on this.
You can go to Sort by and
then you can sort by waterfall,
which will be the initial loading
waterfall that the network came.
I love that question.
Yeah, cool,
I learned something that's amazing.
I never seen that before.
That is the Network tab.
I think the last thing that I wanted to
point out here is that when you click
on an item itself, like this markup,
you can kind of see all of the request and
response headers here.
This maybe doesn't come in handy all that
often, but it can be really good if,
for example, you're a full stack dev and
you're building your backend service and
you're setting cache expiration or
something like that, or
you're setting a CORS header.
And you wanna verify that the CORS header
is being set correctly, in those cases,
it can be really nice, or if you're doing
a bunch of E tags for images or something.
So anytime that you're messing
with headers on the server,
this can be a really nice way to
check the response headers and
make sure that they're
coming in correctly.
I guess similarly, when you're doing fetch
calls from the client side, if you're
passing in any type of header information
verifying that they actually come through,
here can be good too.
And then you can kinda see a preview and
the actual response that comes back,
as well as all sorts of specific
timing on how long it took and
where that time was spent.
We will get into this during
the network specific section.